Calcium channel blockers slow the movement of calcium between cells.
This helps the body improve blood flow and control heart rhythm.
Calcium helps the heart to pump and blood vessels change size.
However, too much calcium can cause the heart to be out of rhythm,
and make blood vessels narrower.
As blood vessels narrow, less blood travels to the heart
and it receives less oxygen.
This causes the heart to pump harder to get the oxygen it needs.
By getting in calcium's way,
and slowing calcium flow between cells,
calcium channel blockers restore normal heart beat
as well as normal blood and oxygen flow throughout the body.